I'm not gonna let you get
away, Gengo!
(Sai) To think, Shikamaru had
this many reinforcements
prepped.
Although that's just what I'd
expect out of a coward like
him.
I think you've misunderstood, so
I'll set you straight.
We all barged in here of our own
free will.
I'm sure that Shikamaru is
hiding something.
Yes.
And it must be fairly serious,
for him to act alone like this.
Will you go look into it,
Temari? Take as many others as
you think will be necessary.
Are you sure? Shikamaru's
a Hidden Leaf shinobi.
The age of drawing lines
between villages is
over.
We need him in the Alliance.
It's only natural to help.
And besides, I'm pretty sure
Kakashi would just give me the
runaround.
I'll drag it out of him.
I know you understand, but do
it as peacefully as possible.
Yeah. Of course I'll
do it peacefully!
As much as I can.
(Kakashi) And?
Is there something else you
wanted to ask?
Right now, Shikamaru's...[gasps]
Anyway, we rushed over here as
soon as we heard that
Shikamaru was in trouble.
Out of friendship, right? Oh,
I'm gonna cry.
(Temari) Just wait.
Huh?
I'll make you cry so hard
you'll wish that you couldn't.
Just leave Sai to me.
He is strong, you know.
M-hm. Oh, I know.
I'm sorry, but you're really
no match for me, Ino.
Let me take on the old man!
Oh?
Wind Scythe Jutsu!
[attacking grunt]
[grunts]
Wow. How surprising. But
it won't work again!
[grunting]
I'll show you no mercy, even
though you're a mere brat!
(Choji) Expansion Jutsu!
What's this?
Who'd you just call a brat,
huh?
Your name is Soku, right?
You really should be present
and supporting Shikamaru.
So what the hell
are you doing?
Like, all I did was
choose a leader who could make
me realize my full potential.
What was that?
Remaining under the leadership
of a weakling like Shikamaru is
like, too tedious and pointless!
[grunts]
Hmph!
You'd better aim more carefully
next time, because if you miss
again, you're going to die.
(Gengo) There's no doubt that
the only way this ends is with
you accepting my will Shikamaru.
[grunts]
Your head is nothing but an
empty flower garden!
(Gengo) Resign yourself.
It's too late now.
Too late?
Just what the hell does that
even mean?
That wasn't bad! But if you're
already this out of breath
against just one opponent...
you don't stand a chance.
Please, Sai! You gotta wake
up!
Don't you think you should
worry about yourself instead
of me?
Don't you remember what you
wrote? You said...
"I don't even know myself
anymore," in the last message
that you sent to the Leaf.
I now have the will that Lord
Gengo has bestowed upon me.
And that means...
that I'm not lost any
longer!
[grunts]
Uh, oh.
Did I overdo it? I can't
sense his chakra at all.
[sighs]
[sighs] No way. Did he, did he
die?
[grunting]
You could say that causing
whomever I target to misread
chakra...
is exactly what my
specialty is all about.
Why would I ever say that?
What are you talking about?
I'm certain that right around
now, Shikamaru will be bowing
down in front of Lord Gengo.
[gasps]
[straining] Shikamaru
wouldn't bow to anyone!
Your strength is incredible!
[grunting]
Partial Expansion Jutsu!
Why you! [gasps]
[grunting]
Take this!
[grunts]
[chuckles]
[gasps]
Hmph!
[grunts]
Cyclone Scythe Jutsu!
[heavy breathing]
[growling]
There's no way that I'd ever
give up! Not when it comes
to a precious friend!
I guess it's too bad
that right about now...
that precious friend of yours
should be taking on Lord Gengo's
will.
Even as you're putting your
life on the line for him.
(Ino) You don't get it!
The precious friend that I'm
talking about...
(Ino)...is you!
[gasps]
(Shikamaru) You're part of the
Hidden Leaf! Don't forget that!
Friendship is useless.
If that's true...
(Ino) then what's that on
your cheek right now?
Mind Transfer Jutsu!
Let me just take over your
mind for a little while, okay?
Hmm?
Hmph.
(Gengo) I didn't lure you in
here just to prevent you from
using your shadows.
When a human loses the ability
to see and smell, his sense of
hearing becomes sharper.
Giving you an even greater
advantage, is that it?
(Gengo) In the shinobi world,
you're either the manipulator,
or the manipulated.
What're you talking about?
(Gengo) Words from a shinobi
that I once believed in.
Do you know of a man named
Zabuza Momochi?
Zabuza? Wasn't he the one
behind the Mizukage
assassination incident?
(Gengo) He attempted a coup
d'état, it failed, and we went
our separate ways.
We had faith in Zabuza's
promise to return someday to
create the ideal society.
But the hardships of
wandering took its toll and
changed him.
So I used Zabuza for my own ends
instead. Just as he had taught.
To put it bluntly, you simply
sold out your friend.
(Gengo) I settled here with my
comrades...
in order to create the ideal
shinobi society that Zabuza
couldn't.
And now, it's becoming a
reality! My ambition finally
begins now!
Don't you want to usher that
glorious future in with me?
No thanks. I'll pass. The
only society I'll sacrifice my
life for is the Leaf's!
You mean the same way that
your father and mentor did?
You don't have any right to
say anything about my dad or
Asuma!
I'm gonna tear down your
ideals until nothing remains
of them!
What happened? What did
I? Huh?
(Ro) Who are you?
Ow, my head is like, seriously
throbbing.
And now Sai.
(Temari) Is the only one left.
Hey, Sai! Please, answer me!
Come on, Sai! [gasps]
Sai!
Just who are you?
I'm a good friend
of yours, Sai.
What? No. That can't be
true. These are my only
friends.
No, Sai, that's just something
that that guy Gengo made you
believe!
Stay back!
Just go away!
[tearing up]
Hmm.
C'mon, come with me.
We'll go back together.
Everyone's waiting for you!
Hey, Sai!
C'mon, Sai!
Ino?
Good! You're back!
Where's Shikamaru?
He took off to go and catch up
with that Gengo guy.
That's not good! I have to
tell him something right away!
No matter what happens...
(Sai) He can't turn around!
(Gengo) The Leaf is still that
important to you?
Damn right it is!
(Gengo) Then I'll let you in on
a little secret.
Do you think that I only hid
myself away in this village
and did nothing else?
What would you think if I told
you I've sent my followers, with
the will I bestowed upon them...
into all the Hidden Villages?
The people of the Five Great
Nations aren't blind fools.
Your people may have infiltrated
a few places, but they'll all
get caught in time.
(Gengo) I'm not talking about
that.
I'm talking about citizens,
about the safety of those you
hold most dear.
Wait. What's that?
(Gengo) One signal from me, and
they'll create an incident.
And you don't have the means to
stop it!
You're bluffing!
(Gengo) You'll soon know if I'm
lying or not.
(Kurenai) Stop! Don't you dare
touch Mirai!
(Mirai) Big Brother Shika!
(Kurenai) Mirai! Mirai!
No. You're not gonna fool
me with some trick.
I've already figured out
how you do what you do.
You infuse chakra into your
voice to manipulate people.
(Gengo) The more you try to
resist with your mind, the more
the heart wants to seek it out.
[grunts]
(Mirai) Big Brother Shika!
(Kurenai) Mirai!
You're gonna pay if you lay a
single finger on Mirai!
I'll personally make sure your
breath is completely snuffed
out.
[grunting]
Just kill.
[gasps]
Gengo, you're too dangerous.
There's no way I can let
you go on living.
This is to protect the Leaf!
It's for that reason that
I've come here to carry out
a mission.
A mission I must fulfill!
[gasps] This is all to make
Naruto Hokage!
[gasps]
Naruto?
Ramen!
Hmm? Uh, what in the hell was
that?
(Gengo) What's the matter?
Now confront the darkness that
consumes your heart!
[chuckles]
(Young Shikamaru) I think...
No matter what, I've gotta
get it right next time.
Listen to me.
You're just a kid, so
ease up a little, okay?
But it's completely my fault
that all my friends...
You're right, thinking of your
friends is very important.
But you also don't have to
take all of it on your own
shoulders.
(Shikamaru) 'Cuz that's a real
drag.
[gasps]
(Gengo) What?
Why did my jutsu fail?
It should've worked! Your
heart is full of cracks!
Yeah, you're right. My
heart is all full of cracks.
That's practically
all it is!
Impossible!
Your words don't have any
effect on me anymore, Gengo.
I finally understand it.
Earlier, you told me you came to
this land along with your
comrades.
So why isn't there a single
comrade standing beside you
right now?
[grunts]
You probably killed them
all, and buried them in this
castle, didn't you?
You're all alone because you
only believe in using others.
Being inside this place is
like being able to peer deep
into your heart!
You and I are both exactly the
same!
We're smart, so we
can't trust anyone!
I'm not like you,
Gengo! [gasps]
All of you!
So it looks like you're still on
your feet!
Yeah!
But it was touch and go there
for a while.
(Shikamaru) Ro, Soku!
Let's go.
All right! Let's get this
cleaned up quickly! Huh?
(Temari) How about...
We just leave it to them
this time?
Yeah, okay.
(Ino) Shikamaru called on those
two.
[attacking yell]
[grunts]
A clone?
That's right. With his
chakra! [gasps]
[gasps]
So he's cloaked his shadows
with chakra? Which one is
real? [gasps]
(Gengo) I...I can't move!
Shikamaru, stop me, and the
world of the shinobi will keep
declining!
Don't you even care if you're
consigned to a life of mere
servitude...
under the Feudal
Lords?
A place where someone with no
motivation is able to live
their own way.
That's the only kind of world
I wanna protect!
How stupid! I'm not going to
allow trash like you...
to interfere with my
glorious vision anymore!
[grunting]
I just like, cut off the
chakra flowing to your tongue.
[grunting]
That's mission complete, then!
(Head ANBU) Good work.
We'll be taking Gengo and his
revolutionaries back to the
Hidden Leaf Village now.
Will you be joining us?
Actually, we...
(Shikamaru) You came to the
rescue yet again.
[chuckles]
You really are something else,
you know that, Naruto?
Hmm?
(Shikamaru) You guys!
What's wrong? Did
you forget something?
Like, we were told we're
on a mission until we get
back to the village.
We'll continue to accompany
you, Lord Shikamaru.
[gasps] Oh, all right.
(Yurito) Sir!
Hmm?
(Shikamaru) Yurito?
You came along on this, too?
I finally got my chance to
handle a really big assignment
just like I wanted to!
Huh? Oh, good.
Uh, Sir, you're being too
stiff and formal again, don't
you think?
Don't forget the clouds! The
clouds, sir!
Oh, yeah.
Anyway, I'm really
busy right now. See ya!
Huh?
[laughing]
What was that, Lord Shikamaru?
[chuckles] The thing about
clouds is, you can't grab them.
You can try, but it's not gonna
happen.
(Shikamaru) And if there's a
wind, they get blown away.
They're pretty shady, no
center at all.
Temari.
Huh? What is it?
It's nothing important, but, I
was wondering if you um, well.
What is it? Spit it out!
Maybe when you slap people,
you could go a bit easier, all
right?
Look, if you space out again,
I'll slap you as hard as I
want!
Uh. Well, good. I'm
counting on you for that.
Hmm?
(Shikamaru) Thanks for
everything.
(Ino) [groaning]
(Ino) Is this the most awkward
conversation ever or what?
Just hurry up and ask
her on a date already!
Now, now.
(Sai) Ino.
Hmm?
(Ino) Sai?
I wanted to say, thanks,
beautiful.
I really felt your kindness.
Beautiful? Oh, uh.
I'd like to thank you properly.
If you'd allow me to do so, that
is.
Oh! Well, then, uh.
[stuttering] How about a date?
Ino, now you're the
one being awkward.
How about sometime,
we, uh...
Have dinner or
something like that?
A date?
Huh?
Are you trying to ask me out
on a date?
Well, uh, yeah.
I see. A date, huh?
Oh, you don't want to?
No, that's not
what I'm saying.
Huh? Uh.
Be prepared.
A date with me could really be
a drag.
Hm?
Do you have a plan in
mind, Lord Shikamaru?
Huh?
Like, a strategy for the date?
I don't need one, do I?
Going on a first date without a
strategy would be like trying to
fight a Tailed Beast unarmed.
You have zero chance of
winning that way.
What would you two know about
it?
What exactly do you mean
by that, Lord Shikamaru?
I do know a thing or
two about relationships.
Find out all you can about
Lady Temari's likes and
dislikes...
and use them to carefully
construct a plan.
You need like at least three
contingency plans...
for a sunny day, a cloudy day,
and a rainy day!
Prepare small talk so you
won't bore her.
(Ro) You'll need to have at
least a hundred stories in your
arsenal, ready to go.
Hey, come on, now!
(Shikamaru) This whole thing,
sounds like even more of a drag
than taking Gengo down!
(Kakashi) The day of Naruto and
Hinata's wedding ceremony is
drawing closer.
So, I sent everyone on a
secret mission to find wedding
presents for them.
But it seems that it's turning
out to be surprisingly
difficult.
The secret behind this mission
is, well, it's something that
I can't talk about!
Next time on Naruto Shippuden:
"Hidden Leaf Story, The
Perfect Day for a Wedding:
Part 1: Naruto's Wedding."